***************************************
PEP 0002 Residential Segregation Module
***************************************

========  =================================
Author    David C. Folch <david.folch@asu.edu>
          Serge Rey <srey@asu.edu>
Status    Draft
Created   10-Feb-2010
Updated   
========  =================================


Abstract
========

The segregation module combines a number of previously developed and
to-be-developed measures for the analysis of residential segregation. It will
include classes for two-group and multi-group aspatial (classic) segregation
indices along with their spatialized counterparts.  Local segregation indices
will also be included.


Motivation
==========

The study of residential segregation continues to be a popular field in
empirical social science and public policy development.  While some of the
classic measures are relatively simple to implement, the spatial versions are
not nearly as straightforward for the average user.  Furthermore, there does
not appear to be a Python implementation of residential segregation measures
currently available.  There is a standalone C#.Net GUI implementation
(http://www.ucs.inrs.ca/inc/Groupes/LASER/Segregation.zip) containing many of
the measures to be implanted via this PEP but this is Windows only and I could
not get it to run easily (it is not open source but the author sent me the
code). 

It has been noted that there is no one-size-fits-all segregation index;
however, some are clearly more popular than others.  This module would bring
together a wide variety of measures to allow users to easily compare the
results from different indices.  


Reference Implementation
========================

We suggest adding the module ``pysal.segregation`` which in turn would
encompass the following modules:

* globalSeg
* localSeg


References
==========

